In this lecture, we take a look at the job math class.
So what is the Java math class?
The Java math class can be used to call methods that perform mathematical tasks or numbers.
Some commonly used methods are math random, which returns a random number between 0.0 or 1.0.
Mac dot macs, which returns the highest number of x or Y in.
Mathop Min, which returns the lowest number of x or y.
Let's try it out.
So in Eclipse I'm going to copy and paste the class in the last lecture and I'm going to call this l08
for lecture eight and I'm going to call it math like so.
I'm not going to double click that glass.
And I'm going to delete all the code from the last lecture.
Apart from the static void main method like so.
So my plan here is to create three methods.
The first one is going to use the method of random method.
The second is going to use mathematics.
And the third is going to use math, not mine.
So first off, I'm going to write public static.
Boyd's.
Random.
And all I'm going to do is write simply system.
Got out of print and.
Brackets for a semicolon.
And inside those brackets I'm going to use math dot random like so.
In the second example, I'm going to use public.
Static void.
Max.
And inside that method, I'm going to use system.
That's out the print and.
And inside those brackets, I'm going to use math dot Macs.
And I'm going to use this version.
So it takes integer arguments and the first into German to provide is five.
And the second is to.
So in the third example, this is going to be very similar.
So I'm just going to copy this.
Pace here, set a maximum record at min and instead of using math dot max, I'm going to use the method
max mathop min like so.
So like the last lecture, I'm going to place the method names in the public static void main methods
to trigger them.
Semicolon.
Maxwell semicolon and men with a semicolon to.
So now I'm going to save this class and then I'm going to right click it to run Java application.
So you can see that a random number has been generated for the first method.
So this random number is between the values of zero and one.
So if I was to run this class again, watch that first value.
So you can see a new number has been generated by the Java math class.
If I do it one more time.
You see, another number has been provided.
So every time this class is run, that method random will generate a new number, random number between
zero and one.
The second method to our views, the Mathop max method is provided of provided to arguments of five
and two, and the max method will get the highest value.
So the maximum value of the two, hence y five has been outputted.
But a third method we use min mathop min.
And again we provide the same two values as arguments, but the mathop min method will go.
We'll look for the minimum value of the two.
So in this case, two is lower than five.
It's what two has been printed.
So I hope this has been a good introduction to the Java math class and I'll speak to you in the next
lecture.